BOOK XV

Ι. ΟΝΕ of the most celebrated Greek authors,
Theophrastus, who flourished about 314 B.C.‚ stated
that the olive only grows at places within forty miles
of the sea, while Fenestella says that in 581 13.c.‚
during the reign of Tarquinius Priscus, it was not
found at all in Italy and Spain or in Africa3 whereas
at the present day it has penetrated even across the
Alps and into the middle of the Gallic and Spanish pro-
vinces. Indeed in 249 13.c.‚ the year in which Appius
Claudius the grandson of Appius Claudius Caecus
and Lucius J unius were the consuls, olive-oil cost 10
asses for 12 lbs. and somewhat later, in 74 B.c., the
curule aedile Marcus Seius, son of Lucius, throughout
the whole of his year of office supplied the Roman
public with oil at the rate of an as for 10 lbs. These
facts will seem less surprising to a person who knows
that 22 years later in the third consulship of Gnaeus
Pompeius Italy exported oil to the provinces. Also
Hesiod‚ who thought that instruction in agriculture
was a prime necessity of life, declared that no one
had ever gathered fruit from an olive-tree of his own
planting—so slow a business it was in those days,
whereas now olive-trees bear even in the nursery-
gardens, and after they have been transplanted
olives are picked from them the next year.

ΙΙ. Fabianus says that the olive will not grow in
extremely cold places nor yet in extremely hot ones.

289

Natural

history ο]
fruit-trees.

The olive .·
its diffusion.

Olive-
9rowinq a ad
piel-iay.

