BOOK XIII. xxx. 99—102

Also wreckage from ships has recently shown that
this timber is dricd by the action of sea water, and
solidified with a hardness that resists decay, no
other method producing this result more powerfully.
Citrus-wood tables are best kept and polished by
rubbing with the dry hand, especially just after a
bath3 and they are not damaged by spilt wine,
as having been created for the purpose of wine-
tables.

Few things that supply the apparatus of a more
luxurious life rank with this tree, and consequently
it seems desirable to dwell on it for a little as
well. It was known even to Homer—the Greek
name for it being thyon, otherwise ihya. W cll,
Homer a has recorded its being burnt among unguents
as one of the luxuries of Circe, whom he meant to be
understood as a goddess—those who take the word
thyon to mean perfumes being greatly in error,
especially as in the same verse he says that cedar
and larch were burnt at the same time, which
shows that he was only speaking of trees. Ali-eady
TheophrastusJ’ who wrote immediately after the
period of Alexander the Great, about 314 B.C.‚
assigns a high rank to this tree, stating that it
was recorded that the flooring of the old temples
used to be made of it and that its timber when used
in roofed buildings is virtually everlasting‚ being
proof against all causes of decay3 and he says that
no wood is more marked with veins than the root, and
that no products made of any other material are more
valuable. The finest citrus, he says, is round the
Temple of Hammon, but it also grows in the interior
of Cyrenaica. He makes no mention, however, of
tables made of citrus—wood, and indeed there is no

159

The aitrus-
ἰῒέθ.

